# Track It (Taylor's Version)

## Preface
Taylor Swift is a singer, songwriter, and businesswoman known not only for hit songs such as Shake It Off and Love Story, but also for her sincerity to fans and love for music. Since 2006, she has poured her heart into her work and created nine original albums to showcase her talent. Despite her deeply personal involvement in her musical projects, her previous record label refused to sell her the ownership rights to her first six albums - Taylor Swift, Fearless, Speak Now, Red, 1989, and Reputation. These albums have instead been sold multiple times without consent from Swift. This betrayal left her no choice but to rerecord these six albums and therefore reclaim ownership of her work. As we witness the execution of this bold business strategy by Swift, we hope to see the success of her efforts reflected in sales, streams, and airplay. 

## Objective
Track It (Taylor's Version) attempts to moniter the level of success of Swift's strategy by daily tracking of her catalog on Spotify. Spotify provides a metric called "popularity" that determines the performance of a song on a scale from 0 to 100 based on worldwide streaming patterns. Overall streams contribute to popularity, but recent streams have the greatest influence on this metric. This measurement is critical to a song's success on Spotify, as it heavily influences the probability that a track will be recommended to listeners and added to Spotify's major playlists. Track It (Taylor's Version) has been collecting this data daily to produce a visual representation of the performance of Swift's rerecorded catalog compared to the original counterpart. We hope that this tool will uncover insights about this intriguing business tactic.

## Technologies
This repository contains code for the front-end portion of Track It (Taylor's Version). Additionally, this web application requires access to a backend database hosted by AWS. New data is added to this database daily through an automatic python script that leverages the Spotify API.
